README.md, before:

# Ubuntu Installation Guide

I use the following list of steps to set up Ubuntu. It will install Chrome, Git, several IDEs, set up programming environments and prepare your machine for the cloud.

## Update the system
```
sudo apt update && sudo apt -y upgrade && sudo apt -y dist-upgrade && sudo apt -y autoremove && sudo apt clean
```

## Install Git
```
sudo apt -y install git && sudo apt -y install git-lfs
```

### Generate key and add public key to GitHub
``` 
ssh-keygen
eval `ssh-agent`
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

## Install Chrome browser
```
wget https://dl.google.com/linux/direct/google-chrome-stable_current_amd64.deb && sudo dpkg -i google-chrome-stable_current_amd64.deb
```

## Set Python environment to version 3
```
sudo apt -y install python3-pip
sudo pip3 install virtualenvwrapper
```

### Install HDF5
```
sudo apt -y install libhdf5-dev
```

### Set the Python3 environment variables
```
sudo echo "export VIRTUALENVWRAPPER_PYTHON=/usr/bin/python3" >> ~/.bashrc
sudo echo "export WORKON_HOME=$HOME/.virtualenvs" >> ~/.bashrc
sudo echo "export PROJECT_HOME=$HOME" >> ~/.bashrc
sudo echo "source /usr/local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh" >> ~/.bashrc
```

### Create an alias for Python3.10 (the latest version of Python installed), perform these commands in the terminal
```
alias python='/usr/bin/python3.10'
. ~/.bashrc
python --version
```

## Install Terminator
```
sudo add-apt-repository -y ppa:gnome-terminator
sudo apt -y update
sudo apt -y install terminator
```

## Install Visual Studio Code
```
sudo apt -y install software-properties-common apt-transport-https wget
wget -q https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc -O- | sudo apt-key add -
sudo add-apt-repository -y "deb [arch=amd64] https://packages.microsoft.com/repos/vscode stable main"
sudo apt -y update
sudo apt -y install code
```

## Install Java
```
sudo apt -y install default-jre
sudo apt -y install default-jdk
```

## Install IntelliJ
```
sudo snap install intellij-idea-community --classic
```

## Install PyCharm
```
sudo snap install pycharm-community --classic
```

## Install Go Programming Language
```
wget https://go.dev/dl/go1.18.linux-amd64.tar.gz
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go && sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.18.linux-amd64.tar.gz
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin
source $HOME/.profile
go version
```

## Install Postgres database
```
sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://apt.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt $(lsb_release -cs)-pgdg main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pgdg.list'
wget --quiet -O - https://www.postgresql.org/media/keys/ACCC4CF8.asc | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y install postgresql
```

## Install docker
```
sudo apt -y install docker.io
sudo usermod -a -G docker ${USER}
```

Commit message:

Replaced Pycharm Snap installation with standalone procedure

README.md, after:

# Ubuntu Installation Guide

I use the following list of steps to set up Ubuntu. It will install Chrome, Git, several IDEs, set up programming environments and prepare your machine for the cloud.

## Update the system
```
sudo apt update && sudo apt -y upgrade && sudo apt -y dist-upgrade && sudo apt -y autoremove && sudo apt clean
```

## Install Git
```
sudo apt -y install git && sudo apt -y install git-lfs
```

### Generate key and add public key to GitHub
``` 
ssh-keygen
eval `ssh-agent`
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

## Install Chrome browser
```
wget https://dl.google.com/linux/direct/google-chrome-stable_current_amd64.deb && sudo dpkg -i google-chrome-stable_current_amd64.deb
```

## Set Python environment to version 3
```
sudo apt -y install python3-pip
sudo pip3 install virtualenvwrapper
```

### Install HDF5
```
sudo apt -y install libhdf5-dev
```

### Set the Python3 environment variables
```
sudo echo "export VIRTUALENVWRAPPER_PYTHON=/usr/bin/python3" >> ~/.bashrc
sudo echo "export WORKON_HOME=$HOME/.virtualenvs" >> ~/.bashrc
sudo echo "export PROJECT_HOME=$HOME" >> ~/.bashrc
sudo echo "source /usr/local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh" >> ~/.bashrc
```

### Create an alias for Python3.10 (the latest version of Python installed), perform these commands in the terminal
```
alias python='/usr/bin/python3.10'
. ~/.bashrc
python --version
```

## Install Terminator
```
sudo add-apt-repository -y ppa:gnome-terminator
sudo apt -y update
sudo apt -y install terminator
```

## Install Visual Studio Code
```
sudo apt -y install software-properties-common apt-transport-https wget
wget -q https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc -O- | sudo apt-key add -
sudo add-apt-repository -y "deb [arch=amd64] https://packages.microsoft.com/repos/vscode stable main"
sudo apt -y update
sudo apt -y install code
```

## Install Java
```
sudo apt -y install default-jre
sudo apt -y install default-jdk
```

## Install IntelliJ
```
sudo snap install intellij-idea-community --classic
```

## Install PyCharm
```
wget https://download.jetbrains.com/python/pycharm-community-2023.1.tar.gz
sudo tar xzf pycharm-*.tar.gz -C /opt/
cd /opt/pycharm-*/bin
sh pycharm.sh

// After Pycharm starts running you can create a Desktop Entry. In the Welcome Screen click on the little cog (configure) in the bottom left. Then select Create Desktop Entry
```

## Install Go Programming Language
```
wget https://go.dev/dl/go1.18.linux-amd64.tar.gz
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/go && sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.18.linux-amd64.tar.gz
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin
source $HOME/.profile
go version
```

## Install Postgres database
```
sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://apt.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt $(lsb_release -cs)-pgdg main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pgdg.list'
wget --quiet -O - https://www.postgresql.org/media/keys/ACCC4CF8.asc | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt update
sudo apt -y install postgresql
```

## Install docker
```
sudo apt -y install docker.io
sudo usermod -a -G docker ${USER}
```
